one of the biggest tricks for fighting
well is just making some agreements
before you fight and that doesn't mean
like oh we're about to get in a fight
now let me how are we going to do this
that doesn't work because by the time
you're getting in a fight your nervous
system is already wild so this is about
like sometime when you're not fighting
sit down and say how do we want to fight
together and I remember Taran and I one
day we were I think we had I think we
were seeing some friends in
Colorado and they got in a fight and it
they they gave us a couple examples the
first one was they didn't hide their
fight from us they weren't going to go
into the shame they weren't going to say
fighting was
shameful and they could do that because
they weren't abusing each other right
they weren't trying to control each
other they were just having a conflict
and so that was like quite a lovely
thing to see in itself but the secondary
thing was at some point in the fight
somebody
said what was it exactly it was like
somebody said uh oh yeah hey we agreed
not to do that we oh we we agreed not to
use that word and the other one was like
oh yeah sorry and then they continued
with the conflict and I was like what
the what the T and I looked at each
other like what the [__] just said like
that's not how but that's not how you
fight and so we asked them about it
after their fight ended which was like
in a relatively short period of time and
I said uh what what the hell what the
hell was that and like oh we have an
agreement we have our agreements on how
we F and they literally had a piece of
paper which T and I never have done and
though would probably be a good idea to
have a like have them written down
because I think we forget them often
they they said even at one point and
then T and I experimented with this they
said at one point our agreement was that
whenever we got in a fight we get
naked so like if we're going to fight
we're going to be completely unclothed
and be completely vulnerable and they
said it totally changed the way they
fought and it changed the way Teran I
fought too and we we don't do it to this
day they stopped doing it but like you
can literally have agreement ments of
like the words that you're not going to
say and you're not going to make threats
you're not going to threaten divorce
you're and to have those agreements and
the thing that I'll say about it is that
if you do that don't expect to live up
to all of the agreements on your first
fight right and but also don't make it
an excuse not to it's our first fight so
I haven't you really want to try to
maintain the agreements and you don't
want to have a fight over the fact that
you didn't maintain the agreements so
it's it's really important to be able to
say that's not our agreement and be able
to stop and say okay yeah that's true we
agreed to this and it's also important
that those Agreements are actually
something that are creative and make you
both feel good and that you both
actually agree to you so it's not like a
cajoling like okay so this is how we're
going to fight right good like it's
literally like
oh when you do this I can say this and
so T and I have a many of those things
like so for instance if I feel like in a
rush and that's creating conflict she
knows like our rules are she just says I
see how much you
care and it totally just makes me go
soft because I'm in a rush because of
the way that I was raised not because of
what the [__] is going on right now
right it's my trauma it's not the real
thing and she knows that that one thing
that she's just acknowledging my care
can totally disintegrate that rush for
me and disintegrate my like urge to try
to control her to speed up
so it can be many kinds of agreements
like sentences that you say when
somebody is in their trauma or the
agreement of if somebody says hey I'm in
my trauma then you go over and you just
touch them or when somebody's sad one of
our agreements is like when somebody's
crying we don't try to stop them we
don't try to fix it we just be with them
in their
tears you know or if somebody's angry
and you need and you feel like it's
abuse you say hey I need that to stop
can you please go into a different room
and then you go into a different room
and get angry and come back like there's
all sorts of agreements you can have and
they have to be yours they have to be
something not prescribed by me but there
something that you and your partner sit
down with and say how do we want to
fight how do we want to be with each
other and your first set of Agreements
are not going to be great they're you're
gonna learn some [__] and you're GNA
have another set of agreements you're
going to have another so to to go back
to that set of agreements over and over
again and say this is how we want to
fight together this is how we W to have
our conflict because we're speaking our
truth because we're growing because
we're changing as human beings we're
going to have these fights and this is
how we want to do it so that they're
most productive so that we can get to
growth quicker so that we can love each
other better these are our agreements
and it's just so good to have them
[Music]